---
layout: post
title:  "The Unmanifest Metadata"
date:   2019-08-15 01:18:41 +0530
categories: TECH
permalink : "/the-unmanifest-metadata/"
---

## The Unmanifest Metadata

There was a time when the businesses had to bend around how the data was organized and leveraged and I can now say that , those days are long gone. Every business today is looking at a solution where the data aligns with the way businesses are done and that requires a paradigm shift. 

Change is the only constant in the universe and Humans, inherently are resistant to change.Any business or organization invariably take the persona of its leadership and this makes it more imperative for a leader to come up with strategy to accomodate the changes in the way businesses are done or the way the dat is handled. Gone are the days when the databases were meant to just dump the data and be done with it. With the constant change in consumer demands and the evergrowing importance of the data; the problem of managing, making meaning out of it has become more challenging than ever. More and more business, specifically FMCG, CPG, Life Sciences are moving towards unifying the data that they have been storing for ages. With that happening, the businesses are in a race to provide the best **customer 360** experience ; which means that businesses need to employ strategy get closer to its customers thereby giving them a sense of inclusivity on one hand and get more and more data / metadata on the other. 

This means that the businesses will have to do a paradigm shift from the _monolithic application_ to _platform_. This can get as challenging as possible depending upon the complexity of the application and resources it consumes and how the data is consumed. There is a thin line between feature-rich application and platform and the boundary is so porous that more often than not poeple don't realize when they have crossed the border. In very simple and rudimentary terms a platform is "anything that can be used to build upon" but this sometimes can get ambiguous especially when we talk about Facebook (I am not advertising it here folks!). It is indeed a software product but at the same time it is also a platform for other applications which leverage the resources inherently provided by the Facebook. 

The change management is a big challenge for the businesses which are moving from the application school of thought to the platform one. The challenge however is the data migration as all the applications will leverage your platform and your consumers will no longer have to use different applications and rather subscribe to your platform. Data migration is very critical in such scenario as no company want to leave tons of the customer data on the old and about to retire legacy systems. However, data migration is neither easy nor optional. It is very computationally intensive and financially expensive and the management of the businesses find it tricky to figure this tradeoff. What makes the data migration tricker is not the cost tradeoff but the fact that one can lose the track of the fundamental understaning of what is being offered to the consumers in this process. 

I was involved in a discussion where the speaker was proposing how some businesses are planning to go the platform way where majority of the audience was from a desktop application development background. I was not surprised to figure out that almost every single question that was asked to speaker was the same question in essence but came with different dressings. Each one had the question of data migration on the lines of something like "How are we going to migrate the data? Will the database change? What will happen to the data? etc.". It is pretty much underdstandable as to why these questions were asked given their backgrounds and the experience. The point however is not about the data, its the perception about the data and the matadata alike that the leaders should instill in the team. It may or may not be challenging to just migrate the data but the point here is does your data still make the same sense as it used to before migrating? What changed all of a sudden? It's just the same data may be a different database. 

The answer lies in the question "Did you consider the context in which the data was stored? What about the metadata?" The moment you lose the context in which the data used to exist it may or may not make the same sense before the migration. A data / database without its context is not of much utitlity more especially so if you are in the process of moving from the app realm to the platform world. This can prove very detrimental to your business especially if you are into retail, FMCG, CPG, Life Science etc. 

It is very critical to set a right perspective of the data and the context then find solutions keeping in mind what is being offered to the consumers post migrating to platform. If the data migration is not in alignment the value proposition of the platform being built then one will end up in a situation where it doesn't make any sense to consume that data. The team should be lifted up to a stage where everyone understands the value proposition of the platform built, how does this affect the business and how each one of the team can impact this.